hello and welcome this is going to be a
quick tutorial on how to get the basics
of your OBS correctly that way you could
do
relatively easy screen shares and
anything that has to do with streaming
first off of course you're going to want
to open obs
to get that loaded up you may get some
prompts for updates and stuff like that
typically what you want to do is on
first startup you want to make sure all
your settings are set up properly
a lot of the time with OBS the way it
goes is it'll have an automatic
configuration for your system which may
or may not be good
um that is all dependent on what kind of
specs you are running I'm running a
an RTX 2070 super with a uh was it a
ryzen 5 uh 3600 and it's not it's not
the best but it's obviously not the
worst uh typically with this you might
want to upgrade uh or change your theme
they got several different types as you
can see uh my favorite is yummy
um
typically by default these are all
clicked on this is completely up to your
preference I typically have them off
because I don't really need the
confirmation that it's going live or
it's starting recording it's relatively
annoying after you go through the uh
first bit of streaming let me reopen
this
when you first go around you you'll
obviously customize this to your fitting
there's a lot of pers uh preference
based
oh if you like Studio mode if you want
it to be a certain orientation uh
anything in that just if you wanted to
open in the background on Startup most
people don't but
that's clearly up to you
um this is where you would put your
stream key and where you're streaming to
you can stream to all these different
platforms you have presets
um
can be relatively important especially
if
say you started to stream and then
you notice it wasn't working or wasn't
broadcasting that would most likely be
either
on your um
your side the server side or it could be
your stream key most of the time it's
probably going to be a stream key I know
with a lot of content creators on
Facebook they typically cycle the stream
keep by 48 hours to prevent people from
getting access and
you don't really want anyone else to
have access to that that's it's like
having a MAC address you do a whole lot
of damage
next would be output it's going to be
how your settings are going to be set I
have mine set to Advanced because I sort
of know the formatting and what my
computer can handle
by default it's usually on
um I think this setting is normal or
regular or something like that
um that's for like those who aren't very
format based or know the formats
um
that can also be a preference as well uh
typically you're going to start on the
streaming side that's if you plan on
streaming you're going to have all these
formats from my understanding uh cqp
which is like constant quality
um something something along those lines
this the all these formats go off of
different uh like
okay so utilization what kind of
resources it Bulls like this one is bit
rate so it's based off of bits I think
it runs off of
internet if I am not wrong myself
um can you have presets and a tuning and
how many passages it'll go through
um in the profile of like
how the computer will prioritize this so
you could set it from Main Baseline to
underneath and then High
then you'd have stuff like like a head
and this basically getting powder is
going through encoding the uh B frames
then there's psycho tuning
typically just helps with the High um
High emotions but then you get the GPU
and the Max B frames some of the stuff
can be tweaked um I typically use leave
them default because most of the time
it's already preset and already encoded
next would be recordings as you can see
it's in standard
um you can even change it I think
there's also an advanced mode for this
and it gets really into depth but I
don't recommend it
um most of the time what you want to do
is you're going to want to have a folder
that you have or you can leave it in the
default which is most of the time it's
going to be your uh
what is it your windows video folder or
if you're on a Mac it's probably the
default
um pathway for that
now as you can see there's all these
options like I could generate a file
name without spacing I could change the
format which I'm currently recording in
MP4 I don't recommend this because as
you can see the warning Below in MP4 and
mov it will not be recoverable if and at
any point it 10 if it crashes or
anything along the line of your um
your video not coming to a proper end
um so like if like
some reason your culture crashes it's
not going to save the progress
and you're gonna get just gonna get a
corrupt file the best format to use is
uh MKV in my personal preference because
though it does take a bit more as you
can see you can have multiple audio
tracks
um it's easy for you to uh remix because
all you got to do is uh
go let me exit out this real quick all
you got to do is go up here and then OBS
has a
remixer which is going to convert it
from MKV MKV to a format that you choose
I think it's just MP4 by default
that's really good for like um if you're
using a video editor that only accepts
MP4 or I think it's mov or something
like that
anyways
um so as you know the output has the
recording settings as well and then
these are going to be audio tracks that
you could set
you can have it isolated and
I don't think it's here
but
yeah so it's for the audio tracks you
could isolate them so I have two for I
think
I have two for the stream itself so like
what everyone is hearing on that side
now that's no no that's my desktop
that's the desktop audio and three would
be my mic so I'd have these two on a
separate audio file just in case I've
had to retweak them like let's say I'm
playing a game it gets too loud and then
you can't hear me so I gotta tweak it so
my gain on my um my three track is a
whole lot better I typically
um have it set so my audio track is one
for streaming because you have audio
tracks as well but you don't want them
to overlap when you're doing recordings
because it caused a bit of an issue it's
not fun to play with
so audio track I typically leave for one
for streaming and then for everything
else I have two and three those are
reserved for separate individuals so
this is like a this one would be like my
streaming and my talking I mean this
would be the desktop or whatever game
I'm playing and my talking and this
would be
um this would be my desktop or the game
I'm playing and then maybe my talking
uh the way that works is
you can go let's say you have an audio
Source here
one of these two a lot of these sources
I have them uh in a Direct Read though
it's easier for me to understand it
you're typically going to go here to the
um
the audio mixer you're going to go to
Advanced Audio properties and then
you're going to set the tracks so as you
can see this is my mic I was wrong
it's on oh that was right yeah it's on
one and three
so it has its own separate file on three
yeah that typically when I record it's
not going to catch one because then I
don't have overlays and I set it to two
and three only
so for the stream audio as you can tell
uh it's gonna go two and three and then
that's basically just like my gameplay
uh I don't know why I have it on three
it's just basically like my gameplay and
um
It's Gonna Catch like anything along the
lines of
like if I have Discord open it'll catch
those that audio it's all coming from my
computer it's gonna go through too
now it's because three I have set for um
are we supposed to be my stream I don't
know I reset it on
my settings it's weird
must have been because I switched to
format
normally it's set to three all right
it's important because every now and
then if you switch formats it will
definitely change your settings so you
need to memorize these otherwise
kit by two in the butt
so as I'm going on what you will notice
is the encoder encoders
um they vary it depends on what kind of
components you're running
as I've listed in my recommendations tab
you can have an assortment of different
types of
um processing units such as CPUs or gpus
uh graphics card you typically want to
do the running depending on how strong
it is because if you're playing a video
game you're um the coder
I mean for the video game typically a
lot of the workload is going to go on
the CPU depending on how they have the
game formatted
now you can go through and
customizing encoder settings and go
further on about that but unless you
know what you're doing and looked into
it I wouldn't recommend changing any of
the encoder settings unless you know
what you're doing
um
next would be audio you don't want to
really change that or the replay buffer
you can change that to have free play
like in your stream you can have like a
key or you can have your um
stream have access to it and then they
can play Replay and have like a little
screen it plays like a little video of
the last 20 seconds or then on another
tab here is the audio tab uh you want to
leave that at 48 kilohertz
um stereo is pretty good I think you
could change it to Mono
I'm not sure if that's correct but
typically I use I use a
a audio interface so I don't typically
use these by default these are usually
set up in a way where if you don't have
an audio file I mean an audio Source
down here it'll play regardless so I
have it tapered to the way I can isolate
my audio as such so my mic and my stream
audio
and it's all separated and it comes out
very crisp when I go through and edit it
I don't want to you could change this if
you'd like it's completely up to
preference I use um my third party which
is a voice meter it's pretty good if you
know what you're doing it can be
relatively confusing later on but that's
something you would have to get into
there's options for ducking and latency
you can even have
um hot keys for like muting
and then for the videos you typically
want this to be
whatever your screen is this is wrong
because my screen is
um
I think it's it's a really weird I think
it's like a 2024 I don't know it's a
weird resolution
um it's probably twice this
um that's typically what you wanted to
do is you wanted to have your screen
size for the first one of your space and
the output which is going to be your
viewers screen size most of the time
it's just 1920 so
that's important but if you were to like
perhaps uh it's if you're recording for
tick tock this would be opposite from
what I understand because it's a it's a
9 by 16 ratio for the cell phones
but that that that's for another video
um typically when you downscale
um you're gonna have like bi-linear a
couple other versions
um I'm not gonna go into that yet
because it's not it's not it is
important but at the same time it's not
all too important unless you know what
you're doing same thing with the frame
rates
um
frame rates you got to keep this in mind
with certain games and certain videos
like unless you're
doing gameplay
probably don't want to do anything above
30 because kid get relatively weird with
frame rates it's not more the better
it's it it basically it's just how many
frames you have per second
that's the literal definition of frames
per second so for FPS you um for video
games to catch smaller actions you
typically want more frames or like if
you're doing like uh self-recording with
like a Blog of yourself the camera I
recommend leaving at around 30 maybe
even 24 because that's
that's just how we kind of receive it
anything faster than like 30 and it's a
face cam it kind of looks weird there's
been there's like tests that'll talk
about how um
they had done a recording in a faster uh
frame per second and it just looked very
janky and stuttery but that's that's for
another video as well here you have your
hotkeys a lot of these are important
because these are your safe nuts
so you don't have to go through and have
to go into your um settings it's really
important especially if you only have
one screen you're streaming to that
you don't want to typically have to
multitask or have to pull this up every
time because some sometimes when you are
in some applications they
screen lock you and they won't let you
drift off into another screen for your
the purpose of usability
as you go through you can I don't know
what the limit for the key inputs are I
would imagine you wouldn't want to do
more than three and that sounds like it
would get really complicated but I have
it so it's a combination of two keys
so I'll have like
a combination specifically for my stream
so hotkeys will be like this one's
really going because I don't know many
um operator Windows hotkeys that are
preset to this by System default but I
use uh a shift alt and I'll use left and
right for like recording it's dedicated
and then I think of this as my screen is
up or my stream is down
there's some other hotkeys that aren't
on here because
this is updated and it
wiped my my settings to default but
that's fine because that's
that's just something we have to deal
with here is
um the advanced tab uh I think this is
yeah this is a processing
um priority so like
if you want this to be over other
applications that you currently are
running you put it on high you put it on
below normal it's just to determine what
kind of processing it needs you don't
want to mess with any of this stuff
unless you know what you're doing
um this is just a format it's in I don't
know what kind of script this is but the
way it's written is
um
I think it's like
I think YY is here so it's like Century
Century year year month month day day
hour hour then
a minute minute and second second
I think that's just like the preset for
the and that that's like the default you
can um choose to override existing files
or automatically remix this this is
relatively
um tedious especially if it's a big file
at the end of your stream the last thing
you want to do is sit there and let this
load out because
um you can have like my my files are
typically around like 10 gigabytes per
video and that's only like probably a
couple hours probably of film or footage
and uh if you have this set out on it
I've noticed it takes quite a bit of
time to process and then code re-code it
to that format and it can
sit there and
also I think I think when it does it for
me it sometimes crashes so I just leave
it alone I'll remix it when I get ready
to edit it you can have your stream
delay just in case if you or you're
worried about um stream snipers you just
enable this and then you can set the how
many seconds it's really good
um
a lot of these you got to be careful
with because if you hover over and then
you move your mouse well as you can see
it'll change the settings and you have
to go through and reset your settings
um this is Network typically you
probably won't mess with this
you could have this enabled for uh no
optimization what it'll think it is
what'll sit there is it'll probably
capture some some packages just to see
how fast it's going and just optimize
how your stream should be set up I don't
normally use it so I probably wouldn't
recommend it the dynamic changing bit
rate on the other hand is very useful
because there are times especially if
you're on your screen or in your
settings and using
a bit rate for your um for your encoder
can fluctuate especially if your
Internet isn't good so like if you have
anything around
say anything around below 20 megabytes
it's not really good for streaming it
can get very janky because you typically
need twice the amount of bit rates so
like if you're doing a I think it's like
a
something like this or is it not so I'm
doing 45 so I have 45 kilobits per
second that's 4.5 megabytes right so now
if I go through I need to have an up I
need a half head I think it's like
Upstream of at least nine in order to
maintain this properly otherwise it's
just gonna go through and be relatively
choppy
so that's a good setting
um
this is for
um browser Source Hardware acceleration
there is some like hot hotkey so you can
tell it how to behave when it's in Focus
or autofocus typically once you do some
um when you do adjust some settings
you're going to want to hit apply every
single time that way it saves you
settings and you don't have to go
through and uh change them once again
it's pretty much it for the basics
um feel free to follow my channel and
for now happy nightmares